>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
this is fairly straightforward, but
now we are completing the puzzle or
full circle by
allowing us to communicate and
persist changes to the server.
And so what this really
consists of is the HTTP module.
The rest methods that exist on it.
We'll talk about observable.toPromise,
observable.subscribe,
the difference between the two.
So I know Chris B.
had a question of promises
versus observables, and so
I'll address that actually right now.
Headers, and then I'll talk
about error handling briefly.
And then we will just hack until
Mark kicks us out of here.
How's that sound?
All right.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Two main things here,
well, actually three.
Look, three bullet points, how convenient.
So really the HTTP module that allows us
to do XHR calls, you can also do JSONP.
I recommend there are some serious
security concerns about using JSONP.
So I recommend not doing that if you can.
But more importantly, the API
conveniently matches RESTful verbs.
So, if you note the REST verbs,
get, put, post, patch, delete,
then you are familiar with the methods
that exist on the HTTP module.
And so, originally, I was, I come from
kind of a cold fusion background where you
would actually define
a method on the server and
then you would call it
as if it were local.
So interestingly enough, this is kind
of where things are going back to.
But when REST came out, I'm like,
I don't understand what's the,
why can't I just call or
define a method on my server called
get super items that would just give me
everything I need and return it back.
It's like well no, no,
no, that doesn't work.
Basically your URL has to match your
data structure and there's conventions.
The upside is once I actually wrap
my mind around REST conventions,
then you never have to
think about it again.
It doesn't actually matter
what the back end is.
So for me, I think when you
are moving from a server-side world,
so .NET, Java, whatever,
a lot of times, the question is, well,
how do we kind of move into
this single page application?
What does that look like?
My answer is to essentially
create a line down the middle or
demarcate your application on a REST API.
So your server handles your business
logic, exposes it via a REST API and
you consume it in your web application,
and
then when you need to basic persist
things, that goes back over the REST API.
The beauty of that is, especially if you
have a legacy system, so I know a very
large company that was invested heavily
in .NET and they wanted to move to Node.
So, and I've actually seen this with cold
fusion as well, so the migration strategy
is to convert your application to
a front and back end using a REST API.
And then what they did in piecemeal is
actually replace the REST API on the .NET
side with a REST API on node, and
the front end was none the wiser.
So, that convention is really,
really handy and to the point of,
I don't consider myself
a backend programmer, but
if I'm getting a REST API,
I don't need to know.
As well as, there's kind of some
conventions, and some guidance,
you can make some assumptions about that.
Now, the HTTP module,
when you make a call,
it returns an observable, and
we will talk about that in just a moment.
So as with the forms modules,
you need to import the HTTP module.
Well, thankfully for the English CLI,
that did that for us.
And, here we go,
simply matches the REST verbs.
So for instance,
hopefully this is in here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I find this
to be fairly conventional.
Almost to the point that
somebody could generate
a service that calls
a rest API very quickly.
In fact, there are I think utilities out
there that says like, here's my endpoint.
Go ahead and just generate my
calls to my REST API for me.
So this is one case where
it's really easy to generate,
essentially code to consumer REST API
because it's pretty much the same.
But for instance, load items.
Well we just call http.git,
create http.post, update http.put.
You can do patch if that's your thing.
And to delete is, http delete.
Pretty simple right?
So if you know the verbs.
Then you just call the verb on the HTTP
module, or the service in this case.
Now, you will also notice that we,
on create and
update specifically,
we're sending in the payload.
We are converting this into
a string to go over the wire, so
in Angular 1 it did a lot of this for
us under the hood.
With Angular 2, the HTTP module
is little bit more bare bones
to give us more control over how
we want to make these calls.
But sending a payload over the wire,
one turn into a string using JSON
stringify so essentially you serialize it.
And you'll notice that we're
also sending in a header object.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Which
we'll talk about as well.
So this is just simply a way to tell
the server what kind of content
type is coming over the wire.
But again, back to the verbs.
Does everybody see them?
Pretty civil?
Get, post, put, delete.
That's CRUD right there.
You'll also notice that what we
are returning is originally,
or so what http dot whatever
method is unobservable, we're then
using .map to take that response and
convert it into something we can use.
So that's what map does.
So just like a array.map is we're saying,
take this and for
every item in here,
go ahead an convert it to this.
So in this case we're saying,
take your response and
instead call JSON on it and
then return it.
So we're essentially
taking the payload and
getting essentially a JSON
representation of it.
And from here, we are calling to promise.
What this does is, as you can imagine, it
returns a promise, and not an observable.